Hey everybody. So, over the past couple
of weeks, I've built a personal agent
that can do sophisticated research,
helping me understand topics I want to
write about, or helping me find the most
interesting content trends and topics
that I should be paying attention to or
having my teams pay attention to. It has
complex writing and content creation
capabilities, and it knows how to
evaluate its own work in order to
approve it. Often, it's using those
research capabilities to understand what
great content looks like.
and it's integrated into a whole bunch
of my other tools like Google Docs,
Google Sheets, and Google Drive. It's
connected to my Slack. It can access my
Apple Notes and even my Apple reminders.
It has the ability to take in my
request, derive my desired intent, and
then it looks at all the available tools
that it has, and it creates a plan for
how to achieve that intent, and then
executes it.
So, I'm going to show you how I managed
to get here, what I learned from trying
to do this in a few different ways, some
of them more successful than others, and
if you stick around till the end, I'm
going to share something with you
that'll help you to get started on
creating this stuff on your own. So, if
you don't know me, my name is Jason
Seir. I'm the VP of design for Cisco's
security business. I've spent 25 years
learning how to make products people
love to use. On this channel, I share
what's worked for me and more and more
I'm starting to share my learnings that
are occurring at the intersection of
design and AI. So, if any of that sounds
interesting, I I do encourage you please
subscribe. I try to post a couple times
a month.
So, why did I want to create an agent?
Well, more than anything, I'm really
curious about all this. We're in the
midst of a massive transformation, and
as a product builder at heart, I just
see so many incredible opportunities
here. At Cisco, we're already committed
to using AI, to securing AI, and to
ensure that our customers can deploy AI
with confidence. We know that our
customers are going to go down this
agentic road, and we need to be able to
stay out in front and deliver amazing
experiences to support them on their
journey. We've already announced AI
canvas, which is our Agentic Ops
experience, and I'm going to talk about
that a little bit later. But now, why
should you care? Well, there are a
couple of reasons I think that are
important. First of all, if you are
someone who plays a role in making
software for people, you need to learn
these things. And I suggest you get your
hands on them. You need to develop taste
around these new experiences, the way
that people use them. You need to use as
many of these tools as you can get your
hands on. You may also be someone who
simply wants to be an early adopter to
these agent capabilities. You're trying
to figure out how this stuff works so
you can use it in your work or you can
support it in your own business. Okay,
so let's explore my learnings. For me,
it all started in Verscell Vzero. My
intro to Vibe prototyping.
Vibe coding, for those of you who aren't
familiar with it, is this idea that you
can code complex things um by simply
using an LLM and a prompt interface. And
you can describe in natural language
what you want and the system writes the
code to deliver it. Forcel is one of
these tools and it's focused on
delivering um products and front-end
experiences and we're using it on our
team to develop really rich prototypes
really quickly in order to express our
ideas. And so it was a couple months ago
that I got really deep into using
Verselv and and it really started to to
show me the the the deep value in um
being able to vibe code and build these
prototypes. So based on my experience
with Vzero, it really got me thinking
about like what what would it be like to
actually build an agent or an agentic
workflow. And so I started um doing
research on YouTube. And I discovered I
discovered a a great channel, Greg
Eisenberg, um who's posting a lot of
stuff about AI and vibe coding and
tooling these days. Um and he had a guy
on um his channel, James Dickerson, who
is known as the boring marketer. Um, and
James had developed u an agentic
workflow using N8N and he was talking
through how he did that. Um, and he was
kind enough to be to offer to share the
JSON file um, from his N8N deployment of
this workflow so that people could take
it and use it as a starting point to
build their own um, agentic workflows
based on, you know, sort of the one that
that he had created. And so I took him
up on that offer. I got in touch. I got
a hold of the JSON file recognizing that
I have no idea what to do with a JSON
file or even what N8N was at the time.
But um I went to my chat GPT assistant
and I started asking questions about um
you know what to do with this and how to
move forward. And really quickly I was
able to get into N8N which is a tool.
It's called a no code or low code tool
and it allows you to stitch together all
of these different nodes um in order to
get a workflow accomplished. And these
nodes can be connected by API to various
different tools or also to um different
um LLM models. So let me talk you
through exactly what this workflow does.
So it takes an input um which is
essentially a um a search term. Um so I
would put in something like AI and
design and it takes that and it splits
into two work streams. In uh the top
work stream, it is going out and finding
high-erforming YouTube videos related to
that topic. And in the bottom stream,
it's doing the same, but it's doing it
on uh Twitter or X. The YouTube videos,
it comes back with a list of about 30
videos, and then it loops through that
list of videos, pulling this transcripts
from each of those videos, and putting
all of that text into a file. It does
the same with all of the tweets or um
exposts that it finds and it puts all of
that data into a file together. Then it
passes that big chunk of data over to a
content idea generator. And this is
connected to um Chat GPT, OpenAI model
by API and it looks at all of that
information and evaluates it for
opportunities to write about new content
that hasn't been covered yet, new
opportunities. and it creates a list of
new um uh essentially LinkedIn post
ideas. And once it has that list, it
passes it over to a research agent who
goes out and does deep research on all
of those different topics to figure out
which have the best supporting
information. What can it find in terms
of stats and figures that support the
thinking um in those new ideas? And
based on that, it sends all of that
information over to another AI agent. In
this case, it's using Claude because
Claude is particularly good at writing.
Um, it sends all of that information to
a Claude model and it asks it to write a
new LinkedIn post. Once that post is
written, it passes it over and it is
connected to your Google Docs. So, it
creates a new Google Doc with that post.
it sends you a link in Slack to that
Google Doc where you can go in and um
click on it. You can review the
information, you can make changes to it
um as you see fit and then you can click
a button in your Slack channel in order
to post that directly to your LinkedIn.
And now the point of this is like I
don't need an automated LinkedIn post
workflow. I I use chatpt all the time to
help me write content that I'm sharing
online. Um but I certainly don't need to
completely automate that. But the point
wasn't to create an engine for my
LinkedIn content. This is more of a
marketing sort of workflow. The point
was I really wanted to learn how all of
this works. And what I learned was that
you can get this up and running fairly
quickly, especially when you're working
with an existing workflow like this. If
I had to figure this out and build it
all um from scratch, it would have taken
a lot longer for sure. I think for the
noviceses out there, the biggest thing
to wrap your head around is for these
individual nodes, you have to go in and
connect them to your versions of these
tools. So, you need to have, you know,
um an API account for OpenAI or for CL
cloud that you can connect, you can
create an API token, which is sort of
your your uh programming login to that
interface and you can insert that token
into these nodes. You need to go um
into, you know, the Google developer
portal and create API tokens for giving
access to your Google Suite. You need to
go um and set up some additional tools
like the scraping tools that it uses to
pull down this information, a tool
called Appify. So, you need to go and
create an account with Apify and create
an API token. So, that's kind of the
hardest part of getting this figured
out. But once you wrap your head around
that concept of these tools um have
APIs, you know, you create these API
tokens and that gives you access to them
programmatically, then it starts to make
um a ton of sense. I was super proud of
this workflow and I was telling a bunch
of people at work about it. Um and then
I got to thinking, man, you know, my
understanding of an agent um is it's
more than just an endto-end workflow.
Like this is a very static end toend
workflow. You put something in one end,
you get something out the other end. And
sure, it's using AI along the way to do
a bunch of these jobs. But I really
think that a true agent is more than
this. And I think that a true agent is
going to take um some instructions or
direction. It is going to have access to
a bunch of different tools that it can
use in different way and it's going to
choose how to use those tools in order
to deploy or in order to achieve the
thing that you're asking it to do. And
this is where I started thinking that I
wanted to recreate this using um a true
agentic system and using what's called
MCP servers. So MCP servers are model
context protocol servers and think of
them essentially as a way that um you
that AI tools AI um models and agents
can get access to various different
tools using a consistent sort of
language. So an MCP server would have a
bunch of tools available behind it.
Those tools may all be using different
APIs to different systems, but the MCP
server essentially um exposes what tools
it has to the AI agent, explains what
those tools are used for, and then the
agent knows that it has access to those
things and it can use them for
accomplishing various tasks. So I wanted
to build a more complex system like
this. And so I I thought I was going to
try to move away from N8 and and and
build something, you know, a little bit
more autonomous. Um, so the first thing
I did was, you know, I went to Claude
and I told it, I said, "Look, I've got
this NAND system that does these things.
I don't think that this is a true
autonomous agent system and I want to
build one using MCP. Would it be
possible to do that?" And it said, "Yes,
of course." and it explains, you know,
how I can go and and do that. And it
suggests, you know, using V 0ero as one
of the tools to be able to do this. Um,
and so that's what I did was I started
using Versel V0. That allowed me to
start building out the front end. Chat
GPT was starting to tell me how to build
out the MCP servers on the back end. And
that started to require a little bit
more heavy lifting. So, you know, chat
GPT would be telling me about the files
that I needed to create and it would um
ask me to create them and I would go um
and start doing that in my own file
system. I needed to start installing
things like a node server to be able to
run um JavaScript and different things.
And so at first it was a little
intimidating, but anytime that I felt
like I didn't know at all what I was
doing, I would just ask, you know, my AI
assistant to explain it to me and walk
me through it. And it made it actually
really easy to figure out. I did have to
get familiar with um using more of a
command line interface for my operating
system in order to run um some of these
tools. But that was, you know, pretty
pretty quick and easy to figure out
again with the help of of um Claude and
Open AAI. Um, but what started to happen
was it started to get a little bit
frustrating because I was updating all
of my front-end system and you know the
front end to this thing I I had sort of
built a very rudimentary AI agent front
end that had a you know a chat window
and it had all sorts of debugging
information on it to help me figure out
what was working and what wasn't
working. So I was using Verscell to
update that and then I was using Claude
and copying and pasting files to update
the back end.
And it was very tedious. And um I got to
a point where I just simply asked cloud.
I was like this is really tedious. Is
there a better way where I don't have to
do all this copying and pasting? And it
said yeah you can use a tool called
cursor. And so I went and installed
cursor and pointed it to my you know
project files. And this was a big
turning point. So this completely
changed everything for me because now
I'm actually in a development
environment. there's an IDE, an
integrated development environment, and
I'm able to um still use an AI
assistant. So, it actually has Claude
built into um this IDE. So, you can
interact with your AI assistant just
like I was, but now it can actually go
and change all of these files and write
code and it can debug things and it can
automatically see error messages and it
makes it really efficient to figure
things out. And so once I moved in this
direction, I started making some really
good progress. But it was still a little
clunky that I had my own front end
because I was trying to get the UI to do
things that I was familiar with in some
of these assistants, like the type of
feedback that I would get and the the
way that it would show me responses. And
I was just spending a lot of time trying
to vibe coat that element of it. And so
then again, I went in and asked um
Claude if there was a better way to do
this. and it and it told me that I can
actually connect MCP servers to the
cloud desktop application and that ties
all this together. That was the other
big sort of piece of the puzzle that I
realized is that I can go into cloud and
if you go into the desktop app and into
settings under developer, you can
actually start connecting MCP servers
with a real simple um config file to
allow you to do that. That was the other
big piece of the puzzle that unlocked
for me. So I went back into my um cursor
and I said, "Okay, I want to completely
rearchitect this system so that rather
than having my own front end and my own
UI, I'm going to use Claude as my UI."
And it went and very quickly
rearchitected the system so that all of
these MCP servers are now connected into
Claude. So, let's take a look at what
that looks like. If I go over to Claude
here,
um, now if I go under my tools section,
you can see that I have a whole bunch of
custom tools that have been exposed from
my Aentic system. So, I've got a whole
bunch of things related to creating
content. It can create Google Docs and
Google Sheets and it can access, you
know, YouTube and Medium and do all of
these different things.
But most importantly, it's got this
distill intent tool that is able to take
a request that I type into, you know, um
the the Claude prompt and it's able to
figure out what's the basic intent of
what I'm trying to get it to do. Then
it's able to go and look at all these
tools that it has available and it
figures out how it can execute on that
intent intent based on the tools and
then it has an orchestrator which
actually executes on that plan and runs
through you know all the different
tools. So let's see what else I've got.
I've got um I ended up building a a rag
service so that I can act get access to
my Apple notes. I have other Mac OS
integrations. So, it's able to connect
to my reminders and create reminders for
me. And it's able to search my notes. It
is uh connected to Perplexity, which is
a very sophisticated sort of AI search
engine for doing deep research on the
internet. So, all of these different
tools are now available to Claude. And
so, like, let's take a look at what this
looks like um for real. So, here's my
prompt. Help me find the most
interesting new articles, podcasts, and
YouTubetubes, blogs, etc. that relate to
the intersection of AI and design. Store
them in my content spreadsheet, which is
a Google sheet. Um, and also create a
brief summary write up on why you
thought they were interesting. Provide
that to me with links to all of the
things and save that into a Google doc.
then create a reminder for me to review
that Google doc and add um and add it to
my content list in reminders include the
link to the Google doc. So this is a
whole bunch of things that I'm that I'm
asking it to go and do. And so what
you're going to see is it's going to
take in that request. It's going to
figure it out and it's going to start
using the tools that it has available to
go off and execute on some of that. So
it is going off and searching for a you
know the search term. um it's going to
go off and do another search to sort of
make sure that it's getting um a full um
list of the opportunities.
It's doing yet another search. So, it's
it's able to reason through executing on
this task and as it's completing these
steps, it's actually evaluating itself
and and understanding, hey, did I
complete that step properly or do I need
to keep working on that step? So that's
why you see it do like multiple
different web searches. And then it is
um adding all of these podcast videos
that it found to my content tracker,
which is a big spreadsheet of content
that I'm, you know, keeping track of and
finding. Here's where what we ended up
with. So we have um a summary document
that was created. Um it created a
reminder for me in my reminders app.
It created this reminders for me over in
my reminders app. Um, and it created a
Google doc that I can go and look at
that has all of the content it found and
some explanation on why it found it
interesting. Um, and links to all of
those topics. So, you can certainly see,
you know, how powerful and valuable
um, tools like this can be. Okay. So, at
risk of this video being way too long, I
get super excited about this stuff and
could go into great detail. Um,
so I'm going to try and stop here and
focus on, okay, what are my what are my
takeaways here? What do what do we take
away from this? Okay, so first of all,
if I can do this, so can you because I
wrote code early in my career. Um, but I
was able to do all of this without
writing uh a single line of code. And
that blew me away at how intuitive um
all of this was. If you're not familiar
with these things, if you don't know how
to do these things, just tell your AI
assistant that you're not familiar or
that you need help or that you need it
to do it for you. Especially in cursor,
it can do a lot of this for you. It can
create files. It can run um debugging
scripts. It can do all sorts of really
incredible things. just, you know, tell
it what to do. Um, and and you know,
just follow along with it. Um, and based
on that, the other thing I've taken away
is this
vibing, as people are calling it, vibe
coding, vibe designing, whatever it is
that you're doing. Um, this vibing is so
intuitive, or at least I think it is.
And I think it's because as a leader it
feels very much like communicating with
people or a team or colleagues. You are
um asking it to accomplish something for
you. The quality of what you get is
based on how clear you are with your
instructions and defining the outcomes
and what success looks like. Um if you
don't like it, you're providing feedback
and providing guidance. you're not
telling it exactly what to do. Like this
is the wonderful thing. It's a lot like
leading a team um of people where you
don't understand that discipline. You
don't have the detail to tell it exactly
what to do. And I think in this case,
that's a really good thing. You just
need to be really clear on the outcome
that you're trying to achieve and what
success looks like and what you're
looking for. And if you're doing those
things, these systems are behaving
incredibly well.
The other thing that I'm realizing is um
I think as more and more people get a
taste for what it's going to be like to
use these tools in this more intuitive
way and as these tools become more and
more connected and powerful um people
are really going to be demanding this as
a key experience in the products that
they're using. So as product people we
need to be ready. We need to be ready to
deliver these AI native sort of vibe
like experiences in the products that we
deliver at Cisco. We're doing that.
We've recently launched AI canvas which
is you know our agentic ops capability
for managing your networking and
security products. Um I'll put a link in
the in the description. You can go and
watch the the launch video for that.
Like I mean we're super proud of that
work and this is the first step in this
direction for us. Um but I think that
the other thing that we need to realize
is that we need to be ready to deliver
really amazing experiences if we go down
this road or you simply run the risk of
becoming an MCP server that's going to
get plugged in behind somebody else's
UI. And what makes me realize that is
the the moment when I realize, man, why
am I building my own complicated UI to
do a bunch of things that chat GPT or
Claude already does, I can expose all of
these capabilities and and and bring
them out behind, you know, Claude and
let it do the um all of these things in
a much more effective way. I think for
uh AI canvas in what we're delivering at
Cisco, we are leaning in to deliver a
world-class experience for network
admins and security admins. Um and I and
I believe that that is going to become
more and more critical. Um and so as
product people, as designers, um this is
an opportunity. This is a great
opportunity for us to actually lead the
way. Um because experience really will
matter in a lot of these cases. Um, so
wrapping up, I've I've mentioned a ton
of resources in this video and I want to
make sure that everybody has access to
them. So I'm going to put as much stuff
in the description as I can. Be sure to
check them out. Um, and also at the
beginning of the video, I mentioned that
I' that I'd share something with you. So
I actually went into cursor and said,
"Hey, can you give me a prompt that
describes this system that would allow
someone to take that prompt and put it
into their own cursor in order to
recreate this?" And so it's given me a
prompt and I'm happy to share that
prompt with people and see if it's a
great way for you to get started. I
believe it will be um and I've
simplified it a lot so it doesn't have
all of the complex tooling and
integrations that I've added in because
I think that part of um the magic of
doing this is is learning it, right? So,
I've made it so that it has just a
single integration into Google um apps
so that you can have Google Docs and
Google Sheets as a place to start with
and then from there you just need to
continue to communicate with cursor and
tell it what you want to add and it will
build additional capabilities into the
system. You will need to go and um you
know get integrated with other tooling
and get API keys and plug them in. But
cursor will make that really easy for
you. So, I'm I'm happy to share that.
What I ask is that you just leave a
comment for me. Let me know that you're
interested in that and then I can reach
out and um and share that with you. Um
have fun. Like I mean let me know how
it's going as you experiment with these
things. Share some of the learning back.
Um I really think that we all need to be
sharing with each other and learning
with each other um as we progress down
this road. As I said in the beginning um
this is the type of content that I'm
really interested in in producing. It's
it's based on things that I'm doing um
myself. Anyways, if you're interested in
this um subscribe, you'll you'll see
more of it. Um and for those of you um
who made it all the way through this
long video, I appreciate it. I had a lot
to share and I'm excited about it. Um
and I hope to see you uh at the next
one. Thanks.