Hey there. How's it going everybody? In
this video, we're going to be learning
about UV, which is a new package manager
for Python that's growing pretty quickly
in popularity. Now, the goal with UV is
pretty ambitious. They want it to be a
single tool that can replace pip for
installing packages, venv or virtual env
for creating and managing virtual
environments. Uh, pip tools for
generating lock files, and even pip x
for installing and running Python tools.
UV combines all of these tools into one.
And also, it's quite a bit faster than
those other options since it's written
in Rust. It's created and maintained by
Astral, which is the same team behind
the Roughliner that's also becoming very
popular. And we're going to look at
Rough in an upcoming tutorial as well.
But in this video, we'll compare how a
UV workflow compares to a standard
workflow with PIP and Venv and try to
get a sense of why so many people are
switching over to using this as their
default. So, with that said, let's go
ahead and get started. All right, so
first let's get UV installed on our
system. There are a few different ways
to install this, and I'll show you the
one that I'm going to use, but also
mention some alternatives. Uh, I'm on a
Mac and I like using Homebrew. So,
that's the method that I'm going to use
here and it's probably the easiest way
if you already have Homebrew set up, but
I'm also going to leave a link to this
installation page in the description
section below so that you can see the
other ways that we can install this
here. So, for example, you can see that
they have a standalone installer with uh
just using a curl command on Mac or uh
Linux. On Windows, you can run a
PowerShell command and then they have a
bunch of different options here as well.
Um, but like I said, I'm going to be
using the homebrew option. So, let me go
back to my terminal here and I'm going
to install this uh using homebrew. And
I'll just say brew install
UV. And once it says that's installed, I
should be able to test this just by
running uv. And we can see there that uh
we get a list of all the commands that
we can use with this. So that is
installed and it's working. So now that
we have UV installed, let's take a look
at how it's used compared to the
traditional tools that we might be more
familiar with. So if I were to start
working on a new Python project, here's
basically what I normally would have
done. So I would create a directory for
my project. So I'm going to create a
directory here and I'll just call this
old way. and then I will cd into that
directory. And then probably one of the
first things that you'd want to do is
create a new virtual environment. So I
would do something like Python 3 and I
would use venv here. I'll just create a
virtual environment called veenv. Uh now
if you've not if you're not familiar
with virtual environments, don't worry
about it. I'm just showing you the old
way for now and we'll look at the uh UV
way which is a lot simpler here in just
a second. So, I'm going to create this
virtual environment here. And then we'd
want to activate that virtual
environment. So, uh I'm on a Mac, so I
would say I would source that. And that
is going to be in the bin directory.
Activate. And we can see I have my
terminal set up here to show me when I'm
within a virtual environment. So, we can
see that that is active. And then, uh
normally we would uh just use pip to
install whatever packages that we wanted
on this new project. So let's say that I
wanted to use flask and request. So I
would say pip install flask request and
then we would go about it that way. And
we can see that just took a couple of
seconds there. And then after we had
whatever packages we wanted installed,
then we would create the project
structure for this new project. Uh so
for now, let's just create a simple
main. py file. So let me go ahead and
clear my screen here. I'll just do a uh
touch main. py which just creates a
blank main. py file. And now let me uh
list everything off in my directory
here. So we can see that we have our
virtual environment here.
Envy file. And after I worked on my
script here for a bit, I'd likely want
to create a requirements file so that I
can reproduce this project and share it
with other people. Uh so to do that uh
using the old way using pip uh I would
say pip freeze and then I would redirect
this to a uh
requirements.txt file. And if we look at
this file so I will just cat that out.
Then we can see that it lists all of our
dependencies here of the packages that
we installed. And we only installed
flask and request but both of those uh
depend on other packages of their own.
So that's why we're seeing additional
dependencies listed here. Uh so then if
I pass this off to someone else, then
they could recreate my project by
creating and activating their own
virtual environment and then installing
the dependencies uh from this
requirements.txt file that I have here.
So that is a lot of steps and it's not
exactly the most intuitive process
especially for newcomers. So now let's
see how this compares to using UV. So
I'm going to go up one directory here
back to my desktop and we can see that
we just have that old way project there.
And now let's create a new project using
UV. So instead of creating a new
directory from scratch like I did
before, I can instead let UV do that for
me just by saying UV and we'll call this
new app. So I'll run that, we can see
that it initialized a project. And now
if I cd into this new application here.
And just a quick side note, if you
already had a project directory but
didn't create it using uv, then you
could also cd into that directory and
just run
uvit uh without the directory name and
it will set up the directory you're
currently using as a new application.
And I didn't add any additional options
to it when I created this, but UV does
have a few different project types to
choose from when initializing a project.
So first there is the app option and app
is the default. So this is what was run
when I just created uh my new project
here. And like I said, this is the
default. This is what I use most often.
It creates a simple project structure
for applications, scripts, uh web
servers and things like that. Uh but
there is also lib and lib creates a
project that is designed to be built and
distributed as a Python package. Uh I'd
say most of us will be using the app
default. Uh but the option to create
distributable Python packages is there
if you're curious. So let me clear this
out. Okay. Okay, so now let's look at
what UV created for us with the default
init for an application. So if I list
all the files here, so first we have a
git directory and a git ignore file. So
UV automatically initializes a git
repository for us, which is nice because
most of us will want to track our code
within version control anyway. Uh the
git ignore file has some common uh
python specific files that we typically
don't want to track in git uh like cache
files and the virtual environment.
There's also a python version file which
contains the python version this project
is configured to use. UV uses this to
ensure that we're working with a
consistent Python version as we're
building this application. Uh right now
it probably contains the version of
Python that we have installed on our
system. Uh but we can change this if
needed. And then we have a readme file
uh which is currently empty. Uh but this
is where you'd typically add
documentation about your project. And
then this main.py file here is a simple
starter Python file for our application.
Uh UV creates this as a placeholder
where we can begin writing our code. And
finally we have the pi project.totml
file uh which is a modern way to
configure Python projects. So let's take
a quick look at that. Uh I'm just going
to go ahead and open up this entire
project within VS Code. Okay. And now
let me open up that pi project.l file
that we saw before. So this has some
basic information about our application.
And at the bottom we can see it's
listing our dependencies. Right now it's
an empty list because we haven't added
any packages uh that we're going to use
for this application yet. Now, this is
normally where we'd create and activate
our virtual environment, but we don't
need to do that here. Uh, UV will handle
that for us automatically the first time
that we run a command that actually
needs it. Uh, so let's add those
packages in uh that we used in our last
example. So, I'm going to go back to the
terminal here. So, now I'm going to
install flash and request like we did
before, but instead of pip, I'm going to
use uv. So I'll say uv add flask and
request. And if I run that then we can
see that finishes up. It was a bit
quicker than the pip installation was.
And also if I look towards the top here
we can see that it tells us the Python
interpreter that it's using and also
detected that we need a virtual
environment. So it created this.v VNV
directory here uh right here for us in
our project and then it installs flask
and request into that environment and
there are a couple other things that it
did here as well. Uh if I open that
project back up then we can see that it
also updated our piprototl file here to
list flask and request as dependencies.
Uh another thing is that it created this
uv.lock file for us. So let me open this
up. And this lock file records the exact
versions of all the packages installed
including subd dependencies. Uh so this
ensures that your environment is
perfectly reproducible and it does all
of that without us creating or
activating any virtual environments. So
basically it helps to uh prevent the
classic problem of it working on one
machine and not working on another
because of some small discrepancy
somewhere. And UV also has this uh nice
feature here for visualizing and
understanding our dependencies. So if I
wanted to see a tree of my dependencies
to see what relies on what, then I could
just run UV tree here within my project.
And we can see that our two main ones
here are Flask and request. And within
Flask, these are the subd dependencies
here. And with request, these are the
subd dependencies here. Okay. So now
let's say that we work on our
application for a while and now we want
to run it. How would we do that from the
command line if that virtual environment
isn't activated? So from an IDE, this
should be fairly simple. Uh for example,
let me open up that main.py file here
within VS Code. So I'll open this up. So
within most IDE, you should have an easy
way to find virtual environments within
your current project. Mine automatically
selects virtual environments inside of
my projects if they exist. Uh, but we
actually open this project before that
environment was created. So to select
it, I just have to navigate down here to
the bottom right. And we can see that
it's using this uh
3.13 here. And I'm just going to have it
select this virtual environment here
within my directory. And just to make
sure that this works, uh, let's print
out the Python executable that's
executing our script. Uh, that way we
can be sure that it's using the correct
environment. So to do this, I'll just
import CIS. And then where we are
printing out here, I will print out uh
CIS.executable. So now if I save this
and run it within VS code, then we can
see here that it is using that correct
uh Python virtual environment. So, we're
within our new app and our virtual
environment here. So, we're able to run
this easily from an IDE. But now, let's
go back to our terminal and see how we
would run it from there. So, let me
clear out my terminal here. And
actually, I never deactivated this
virtual environment from before. Uh,
glad that didn't screw anything up. Let
me go ahead and deactivate that really
quick. Okay. So, now with UV, we're not
in that same paradigm of having our
environment active at all times.
Instead, we're going to let UV handle
that for us. So, instead of doing
something like uh Python main. py, uh
we're going to instead say uv run main.
py. And if I run this, then we can see
that we don't have any virtual
environments active right now. Uh but uv
runs the code and automatically uses
that virtual environment that it created
earlier. Uh but now let me show you
something that's pretty impressive. So
let's say that the virtual environment
gets removed or deleted. So I'll go
ahead and just delete that completely
from my project. So I will uh
say remove that virtual environment. And
now we can see that there is no virtual
environment here. And normally this
would screw us up. Uh we'd have to go in
and create this environment again.
activate it and then install the
packages to run our code and then
finally be able to run our code. But all
of the information that we need to run
this code is in our PI project and lock
files. So with UV, if I just try to run
this again with UV run main. py, if I
run this, then we can see that it runs
that just fine. And what it did was it
saw that we didn't have a virtual
environment. So it created that for us.
Then it installed all of those packages
very quickly. And then it ran the code
for us, all with one command. And not
only that, but it was extremely fast as
well. Much faster than if we'd done this
with pip and VNV. And we don't even need
to run that main. py file to get it to
create our environment and install those
dependencies. Uh, so if I were to pass
this off to someone and they wanted to
get their environment ready without
running the application, then they could
simply use UV sync. And I'll show how
this works. So first, let me delete that
virtual environment again. So it's not
within our project. And now if I pass
this off to someone and they have this
on their machine, then they can simply
run UV sync. And when they run that, we
can see that it recreated the exact same
environment using the UV lock file. And
now if we wanted to remove a dependency,
then I could just say UV remove flask.
And if I run that, it takes that off.
And that would remove that package and
update the PI project and lock file. And
then they could simply send that back to
me without their virtual environment.
and I could run UV sync and get synced
up with those dependencies. So, I find
all of this a lot easier, especially for
beginners. Uh, instead of running five
to six different commands and having to
understand virtual environments, uh,
we've got a much more streamlined
process that does all the complexity be
behind the scenes. And one of the
biggest advantages that you'll notice
with UV, especially over time, is its
smart global caching system. Uh so this
means that if we have 10 different
projects that all use the same version
of Flask, uh UV only stores that Flask
version and its dependencies once on our
disk, which saves a lot of space. So
your environments still remain
completely isolated from each other. So
there's no risk of conflicts there. Uh
but you get the dispace savings and
major speed improvements when installing
packages that you've used before. And
that's especially noticeable when
recreating environments or setting up
new projects with familiar dependencies
because with pip and venv different
virtual environments for different
projects might contain duplicate copies
of the same packages. Uh so not only do
you save disc space but you also save on
download times and what used to take
minutes with pip can be almost
instantaneous with UV. And I know that
there's a lot of new tools out there and
it can get a bit overwhelming. So, some
of you may be thinking, "Okay, this
looks cool, but I'm used to pip and I
don't feel like learning a new tool
right now." Uh, well, the good thing
about this is that UV provides a UV pip
subcommand that acts as a direct faster
replacement for pip itself. So, you can
actually just keep using familiar
commands if you want to transition
gradually. So, let me show you what I
mean by that. Uh so let's say that we go
back to our previous project where we
used pip and install another package. So
let me switch over to that old way
project that we created before. So in
here we haven't set this up with UV. If
I look at the files in this directory
then we should only have our Python
script and our
requirements.txt file. So if I wanted to
work on this, uh, we could activate the
environment and then use pip to install
a package using pip. But UV has a pip
command that behaves the same as pip.
And if you have a virtual environment in
your project already, then it will find
that for you. So if I wanted to add uh,
numpy for example, then I could say uv
and then pip install numpy. And if I run
that then we can see that that
installed. And now if I say uv pip list
then we can see that now we have flask
request and we also have numpy there. So
this uh pip subcomand here is nice for
transitioning over to UV. Uh but you do
miss out on a lot of the functionality
that makes UV so useful. So for example,
uh since it's just doing what pip would
do, it's not creating that pi project or
lock file in the background. So if I
look in this directory, then we can see
that we still only have the same files
as before. So if I wanted this
requirements.txt file uh to be up to
date with the packages that we just
installed, then we'd have to do a uv pip
freeze uh to overwrite that. So, the
option to use pip commands is there if
you want it, but I'd really recommend
just getting started with using UV uh
with its own commands. And I think
you'll find it fairly easy to learn and
use. Now, if I wanted to migrate this
project here over to using UV's workflow
instead of pips, then I could just say
UVIT and run this. And that will create
the project structure that we saw
before. And then I'd have to add those
packages from the requirements.txt file.
So first let me show that it created
this project structure that we saw
before. And now I want to add those
To do that I can just say uv add- r
requirements.txt. And if I run that it
will install all of those. And if I look
at the pi projectl file then we can see
that now all of those are listed in our
dependencies. So at that point if you
wanted to move forward only using uv
then you could delete that
requirements.txt file and rely solely on
your pi project and lock files. Okay. So
now let me switch back over to uh the
other directory that I created before in
this new app. Now, another really cool
feature of UV is that it can replace pip
X for installing Pythonbased command
line tools. Now, if you don't know what
Pip X does, it basically allows you to
install Python command line tools that
you can use anywhere on your system and
not just in a specific project. Uh, so
llinters, formatterers, things like
that. Uh those are things that you'll
likely just want to install once and use
across multiple different projects as
opposed to installing them in every
project individually. And we can also do
this with UV. So for example, let's say
that we wanted to install Rough, which
is a popular Python litter that's also
made by Astral. So normally, uh you
might install this with pip X, but we
can use UV instead. And this is a tool.
So I can say UV tool install
rough. And what this does is it installs
rough in an isolated environment but
makes it available on your path. So
let's confirm that that's installed and
accessible from anywhere. Uh I'm on a
Mac so I can do that by saying which
rough. And we can see that it did
install it here in my uh local bin
directory of my home folder. So that
should be available anywhere on the
system. And rough is a llinter. So with
that installed, I can check my Python
code. So if I wanted to check this
project, I could say rough check. It
says that all checks pass there. And if
I had a more strict rough configuration,
then that might come back with some
improvements uh to change my code in
ways that I want. And I'll be doing a
rough tutorial in the near future also.
Uh, so be sure that you're subscribed if
you'd like to be notified when that's
released. Okay. So, it's just as easy to
remove a tool. So, let me clear my
terminal here. So, to remove a tool, I
can say UV tool uninstall rough. And
now, if I check my system again for that
rough command, we can see that it's not
found. Now, one really cool thing about
UV is that we don't even need to install
these tools permanently on our system.
in order to use them. Uh so if you just
want to test out a tool or use it a few
times for a specific task without
permanently installing it, then we can
do that by saying UV tool run. So let me
clear this out. UV tool run. So if I
wanted to run that same rough check
command, then I could say rough check.
And we can see that that works just like
it did before. But if I search for rough
on my system, then we can see that it's
not installed. So that UV tool run
command installs it in a temporary
environment, runs it, and then cleans it
up afterwards, which is super useful,
and it does it all very quickly. And
running different tools like this is
very popular in UV. Uh, so they've
actually made a shortcut for UV tool
run, and that is UVX. So I can do the
same thing just by saying uvx rough
check and that is the same thing as this
uv tool run rough check. So if I run
that we can see we get the same thing.
If I search for rough it's still not
installed. So that is super useful for
running tools without installing them.
Uh but I use rough a lot. So I'm
actually going to go ahead and install
that permanently. So I'll just go ahead
and do that. and keep that installed.
And we can check the tools that we have
installed by saying UV tool list. And we
can see here that right now we only have
rough. And we can upgrade those
individually if you want, but most
likely uh you'd probably want to update
them all at once. Uh to do this, I could
say UV tool upgrade and then we could
just do a d-all here. If I run that, we
can see that there's nothing to upgrade
since we just installed that. So, I
really like UV's tool integration here.
Uh, it's taking all of these things that
used to be separate tools like pip, pip
x, and virtual environments and making
them feel naturally like they belonged
as a single tool to begin with. And
there's even more that UV can do that we
haven't covered. So, it has ways of
managing different Python versions, has
commands for building and uploading your
own Python packages to Pippi, uh, and
even has some features designed to help,
uh, build optimized Docker containers.
But those are things that we could cover
in a more advanced tutorial if anyone is
interested in that. But I think what we
went over here covers the majority of
what most of you will use UV for. Uh,
I've been using it myself for some time
now and really don't see myself going
back to using PIP or virtual
environments the way that I was before.
Uh, it's also uh what I'm going to be
using in future videos. So, I wanted to
make this quick tutorial that I could
point people towards if they see me
using UV in a future video and have
questions about that or why I'm using
that over PIP. But with that said, I
think that's going to do it for this
video. Hopefully now you feel like you
have a good idea of how UV works and how
it can simplify your Python package
management. Uh we've seen how it
replaces multiple tools with a single
interface and how it can be dramatically
faster than those traditional tools. Now
in a future video I'm going to be
covering Rough which is a llinter built
by the same team and that's another tool
that I've migrated over to using in my
daily workflow. So, big props to the
team at Astral because they've
definitely put out some great tools
lately uh that have become super popular
in the Python community. But if anyone
has any questions about what we covered
in this video, then feel free to ask in
the comment section below and I'll do my
best to answer those. And if you enjoy
these tutorials and would like to
support them, then there are several
ways you can do that. The easiest way is
to simply like the video and give it a
thumbs up. Also, it's a huge help to
share these videos with anyone who you
think would find them useful. And if you
have the means, you can contribute
through Patreon or YouTube. And there
are links to those pages in the
description section below. Be sure to
subscribe for future videos. And thank
you all for watching.