You need to learn MCP right now. MCP
makes AI do things overpowered things.
Like when I connected Claude to my
Obsidian vault. What? Or Brave or Kali
Linux? My jaw dropped. I mean, look at
this. Claude is hacking with Kali Linux
right now. So, in this video, I'm going
to show you the magic of the model
context protocol. I'll break down what
it is, show you how to use it with
Docker containers. It's all local, and
even how to build your very own custom
MCP servers for literally anything you
can think of. My goal by the end of this
video is to create a Kali Linux MCP
server so our LLMs can hack for us.
Doesn't that sound awesome? Get your
coffee ready. Let's go.
And shout out to Docker for making this
video possible. So, giving LLM access to
our tools makes them insanely powerful
and it's necessary if we want them to do
anything productive. But to do this is
kind of hard. And I hate to say this,
but you have to think about LM like
people to a point. Now, for us humans,
when we want to use tools like a task
manager or an email manager, we're not
going to be interacting with the code,
right? No, no one would use it. That's
why we have user interfaces or guies.
This nice, friendly interface abstracts
away the complicated code, making it
easier and possible for most humans to
use it. Solution found. Let's just give
the LLM a guey. They'll love it. No,
they won't. They hate gooies. At least
for now. LLMs, they love text. So giving
them a gooey, it's like they can do it.
It's hard. It takes forever. Okay, fine.
Just give them the code. LLMs love code,
right? Not going to work. They need
access to that code and your apps are
not going to give it. But hold up. What
about APIs? That would be perfect,
right? Application programming
interfaces were built so that one
program could use the tools of another
program. You can't give a program a
guey, but you can expose API endpoints
that allow a program to programmatically
use these tools in a language it
understands. So, for example, my real
task manager, ClickUp, they expose an
API endpoint that allows a program to
create a task for you. And when I
pretend to be a program, watch what
happens. Boom. Task comes in. Or I can
use the Obsidian REST API, pretend to be
a computer, and create a new note. How
cool is that? So, what's the point of
this video? Problem solved. Give the LLM
API access. Hold on. Let's say we did.
First of all, this API stuff, that's
code. in order to interact with the API
endpoints. That's going to be running
some sort of code, which the LLMs often
don't have access to. And even if they
did, look at this API documentation. I
mean, look at ClickUps. It's super
intense. You'd have to code each one of
those API interactions and instruct the
LLM on how to do it. Now, don't get me
wrong, people do this and it works, but
it's kind of a pain, right? And there's
no standard way to do it. There's got to
be an easier way, right? Check the title
of the video. MCP came in to save the
day. MCP is the model context protocol,
a standardized way to give tools to LLM.
It's kind of like how USBC solved our
cable issues. Created by Anthropic, it
did not take long for this to become the
industry standard. And here's why. Check
this out. So, instead of the LLM having
to run code to interact with the APIs,
we'll throw in what's called an MCP
server. This server is abstracting away
all the complexity of these API calls.
Now, what does that mean? It means all
the code that you would normally have to
write to interact with the API, the MCP
server is handling that. It has that
written into its code. It'll do all that
for you or for the LLM. So, all we have
to do is say, "Hey LLM, connect to this
MCP server." Slot right in. We'll say,
"Hey, Mr. AI, when you want to create a
task or get a task, you don't have to
code anything. Just simply ask the MCP
server to do it." The MCP server will
have these tasks or tools exposed like
create a task and all the LLM has to do
is simply ask and use that task. It
doesn't have to know anything about API
endpoints, anything about the code,
authentication, none of that. The MCP
server abstracts all that complexity and
makes it kind of stupid simple for our
AI. We essentially created a guey for
our LLM. They just have to click a
button. And the most exciting part about
this is that this MCP thing is now the
standard. So if your AI, if your LLM has
the ability to connect to an MCP server,
which most do now, everyone's adopting
it. Then you can connect to a ton of
applications because everyone's exposing
their APIs via an MCP server. Enough
talking about it. Let's have you try an
MCP server right now. Quick sip of
coffee.
Let's get you connected to one. I just
heated up my coffee. It's super hot.
Now, I've got good news. It's actually
crazy easy to run your own MCP server
right now locally on your computer. Let
me show you. It's going to be using
Docker. Shocker. That rhymed. And you
can do this on pretty much any machine
you want. Mac, Linux, Windows. The one
requirement is that you're running
Docker Desktop. Actually, let me do a
whole what you need thing real quick.
I'm not sure why I did jazz hands there.
That felt very weird. I can't imagine
how it felt for you. So, Docker Desktop
and you'll also need an LLM app,
something that can run large language
models and something that can use MCP
servers. I'm going to demonstrate three
options. I'll show you cloud desktop, my
personal favorite. It's free. This will
be using the cloud models, which are
fantastic. I'll show you LM Studio for
local models like Llama. And for all you
people who love, I'll show you Cursor.
Let's get started with our Docker
desktop install. It's really easy. I've
got a fresh Mac here. I'm going to go
out to docs.docker.com.
docker.com/destop
and that's it. I'll have all the links
below in a guide. For me, I'll do Docker
Desktop on Apple Silicon. I'm not going
to walk through Windows or Linux
installs, but they'll all be below. Keep
in mind, Windows does involve the extra
step of getting WSL 2 or HyperV set up
as a backend. We're not going to cover
that here, but there are docs in the
description below. All right, I'll go
ahead and install Docker Desktop and
then launch it. We'll sign our life away
by accepting all terms. Use recommended
settings. And now here, you can create a
Docker login if you want. You don't have
to, but I recommend it. It's free. No
pressure. Now, Docker Desktop is great
at running Docker containers. You
probably saw that coming, but maybe what
you didn't see coming is they're great
at running MCP servers with their MCP
toolkit. This is brand new, hot off the
presses. And when I first heard about
it, I didn't care so much. Honestly, I'm
like, so what? Then I tried it. And now
I use it every single stinking day. It's
amazing. Now, to get this working, we
have to turn on a few things. The main
thing is the MCP toolkit. We'll click on
that real quick. Actually, is it already
installed and set up? Let's go make
sure. Let's go to our settings. We'll go
to beta features. Okay, I already had
Docker MCP toolkit enabled. Go check
there right now to make sure you don't
already have it enabled. And that's um
all we had to do. Now, let's pick an MCP
server to run. They have a whole
catalog. Look at all this. Now, these
are official MCP servers that are part
of their catalog. As I mentioned, we can
make our own. I'll show you that here in
a moment. But let's search for one that
will be really fun right now. Obsidian.
So, yes, there is an Obsidian MCP
server. I'll just add the sucker. And
all I have to do is paste in my Obsidian
API key, which I can get from Obsidian
here. Now, Obsidian is a local open-
source notes application, my favorite. I
use it every day. And they have a
community plugin called local REST API
that I installed. We already used it
earlier. I'm going to grab this API key
that it provides and paste it into this
field here.
And that's it. Getting back to my
servers tab here. You can see I have an
Obsidian server, 12 tools available. If
I jump in there, I can see what the
tools are. Click on tools and you can
see that it's describing these tools in
plain language. Use Obsidian append
content to append content to a new or
existing file in the vault. Behind the
scenes, it's doing all these API calls
to the Obsidian REST API. But for you,
me, and the LLM, we just know we say,
"Hey, get some changes. Hey, do a simple
search." And it does it for you. You
ready to see it happen? Now, you're
about to see some slide of hand here.
Really just some magic behind the
scenes. Something absolutely crazy is
happening. Something called the Docker
MCP gateway. Okay, I'm not going to show
you that just yet. We'll cover more on
that later, but just know it's doing
some extra magic behind the scenes. Now,
notice under MCP toolkit, we have the
option for servers, the catalog, and
then we have clients. These are the LLMs
that can interact with the Docker MCP
servers. Look at that. Cloud desktop is
right here. What do you say we connect?
And that was it. I just did it. So, I
have Cloud running right now. This is a
free account. I don't pay for anything.
I'm going to restart it. Launch it
again. And by the way, ignore this. We
won't need this right now with our own
custom tools. Now, I'm going to click on
this setting box right here. And you're
gonna see something amazing. MCP Docker.
That's us. That's what we just did. If I
click on that, it's going to show you
the tools that we just added to Claude.
So, watch this. Yo, create a note in my
Obsidian detailing the best way to make
French press coffee. Let's go. Now, it's
going to start thinking. Then it's going
to realize, oh, I have a tool available
to me. I'm going to try and use that.
Let's look behind the scenes here. Yeah,
it's getting it ready now. It's going to
ask you permission to use that tool
because it is accessing things outside
of its normal purview. Sure, I will
allow it just this one time, though.
Okay, so it said it did it. Let's go
take a look.
There it is in my notes. Are you
stinking kidding me? H, it works the
same way for search. I'm going to create
a fun note here. Just something random.
Cool. Now I'm going to ask it to search.
Hey, search my vault for something about
drinking tea. I'll allow one time to do
the simple search.
It's going to do a broader search. It'll
try a few times. It's going to read the
note or get the file contents. But see,
here's what's happening here. This is
why this is amazing. It's not having to
authenticate. Doesn't know anything
about that. Doesn't care. Doesn't know
any code or API, anything at all. It
just knows that it can call that tool,
use that task tool, and that's it. And I
got the information. This is so powerful
for us. Are you kidding me? Coffee break
for that.
Hey, never chat from the future here.
What I'm showing you here, it's cool,
but it's all local. At this time stamp,
I'm going to show you the Docker MCP
gateway and how we can make any tool you
build remotely accessible from things
like, I don't know, N8N. Dude, it's so
cool. I'll see you there. Back to the
video. I seriously have goosebumps just
talking about this. And I've been using
this for a minute now. What do you say
we go add a few more MCP servers?
Because we can add a lot. We can go
crazy. Let's go to the catalog. duck.go.
Sure, I want one. It's already there.
Fetch. It'll grab URLs. Got it. Or it'll
grab the contents of a website given a
URL. Oh, they have so many cool ones.
Oh, they have Brave search. I need an
API key. I don't feel like getting that
right now. Oo, Airbnb search. Let's do
that. Ooh, YouTube transcripts. We can
do that. That's crazy. Okay, let's try
it out. Now, this time I'm going to add
some more clients. Let's add um cursor.
Click connect. Done. LM Studio. Click
connect. Done. Now, it's that easy
because I already have cursor in LM
Studio installed. And behind the scenes,
all it's doing is updating an MCP server
config file that each one of these apps
has. Now, let's try LM Studio. I'm going
to restart it real quick to make sure
I've got everything I need. And LM
Studio again is what we can use to run
local um LLMs. I'll load a model. We'll
do Gemma 312B. And then I think I'll go
down here to my plug and see. Oh, yep.
There it is. We'll connect our MCP
tools. MCP Docker sitting right there.
If I click that tool icon, we can see
all the tools, I think. Oh, yeah. There
it is. Beautiful. Now, let's ask it to
do something. So, I'll say, "Find the
top 10 best Japanese restaurants in
Dallas. Use the dot.go tool and then
create a note in my vault with your
findings using the Obsidian tool. Local
model. Let's see how you do, buddy."
Keep in mind, these MCP servers are
running locally on my computer. I'll
give it permission. Go ahead, bud. Okay.
But it didn't create the note in my
vault. Let's try it again. Okay. Gemma's
kind of dumb. Let's try DeepSeek, a
model that can think.
Give her permission. Come on, buddy. You
can do this. All right. Gave permission
to Obsidian. Okay. It found the Japanese
restaurants. Let's check Obsidian. It
did it. Oh no.
Local models are dumb. But it did the
tool call, which is what we cared about.
If we did that same thing in Claude, it
would move very quickly.
[Music]
Okay. Said I did it. Let's check it out.
Oh, I did a great job. Check that out.
That's so fun. Let's see if Cursor can
do the same thing. I'm going to restart
Cursor.
Grab the transcript
for this YouTube video. Look at that.
Run the tool. And this is the free
version of Cursor, too. Oh my gosh, it
grabbed it. Now, let's add that to my
Obsidian Vault. It's so powerful, man.
Okay, it finished. Let's go check our
note. There it is. Grabbed my YouTube
video, summarized it, put it in our
note. Come on. Are you not excited about
that coffee stinking break?
You know, people ask me, "Is that
enthusiasm? Is that fake? Is that
scripted?" No, it's not. Ask my wife.
I'm always like this. All right, here we
go. It's time for you to build your very
own MCP server. Custom, just how you
want it. Because there may not be an MCP
server out there that does what you want
it to do. So, right now, I'm going to
walk you through building three MCP
servers. Yeah, three. Because it's kind
of easy. I did a lot of work to figure
out how to make this work well. I went
through the pain for you. The first one
will be a fun demo, a simple dice roller
just to kick the tires, make sure things
are working. Then I'll show you how to
build some real tools involving APIs.
But seriously, you're going to feel like
you can do anything after learning how
to do this. The world we're living in
right now is crazy. Let's get started.
Now, the secret sauce behind all this is
this prompt that I built. Here it is.
Network Chuck's MCP server build prompt.
contained in this one prompt is
everything an AI will need to build you
an MCP server. All you have to do is
describe what you want. Let's do it
right now. By the way, if you don't want
to run all this LLM stuff right now, I
do have this entire example in my GitHub
link right here. Just around maybe here,
we'll tell it something. Okay, I want to
build a very simple dice roller MCP
server. I wanted to do coin flips, DND
stuff, any kind of dice roller mechanic.
Bake that in, make it simple and clean.
Let's copy and paste this whole thing.
Pick an LLM that you know is pretty good
at coding. Your quality will vary. I
right now love Claude Opus 41. He's kind
of amazing. Just going to paste this in
and go. Coffee break while AI makes
magic things happen. And what this will
spit out is everything you need to build
this server. It'll walk you through it
step by step. I think I asked it to do
too many things.
It's almost done. Okay, it finally
finished. It gave us a lot of stuff and
we're going to follow it step by step.
Now, it created us five files. A Docker
file, requirements, dice server, readin,
and a cloud. MD file. You really only
need the first four unless you're using
clot. And all the files should be right
above it here. So, first I'll create a
directory. Call it my dice or something.
I don't know, something stupid. Jump in
there. cd my dice. And we'll create our
Docker file real quick. I'm just going
to PB paste that in there. It's a
special thing on Mac.
The Docker file will describe how to
build a Docker container, which we're
about to do. We'll then do the
requirements file, which is almost
nothing. Requirements.txt
and then the server, which will be the
biggest piece of this.
dice_server.py.
And by the way, to create these files in
the command line, you can use nano them,
I don't care. And then finally, the
readme file, which is just nice to have.
Now, that's all we really need to do
this. We're going to run one command
right now. We'll follow the instructions
here. Yep, right here. Docker build.
Paste that in. And it's going to build a
Docker container right now. Quick coffee
break.
And what it's doing, if you're not
familiar with this, is it's taking all
that stuff, the Docker file, which
describes how to build the Docker
container. It's going to add our Python
server config. And it's done. If we type
in Docker image ls, we'll see our DICE
MCP server right there along with our
other MCP servers that we added through
the Docker catalog. Speaking of catalog,
we need to make our own. Now, see here
in the instructions, they say you can
make a catalog directory if you don't
already have one. You probably already
have one. And if we type in ls do our
home directory look in Docker the Docker
directory. It's hidden inside MCP and
cataloges. See I already have a few here
just kind of chilling out. If you just
install this you'll just see
dockermcp.yaml.
We're going to make our own right now.
Your AI prompt should spit out a custom
YAML. We'll grab that. We'll create our
own right now in that location.
Docker MCP cataloges. I'll call it my
custom catalog.
Done. And there's one more thing we have
to do and it's going to tell us right
here. We need to edit the registry. Now,
this is how the Docker MCP gateway is
going to work. Docker has their built-in
catalog. You can also add custom
cataloges like this or like this. And
that's just a catalog. Like you shop for
the MCP server you want to add. Once you
do add them, they get added to what's
called the registry, which if I ls
the Docker MCP directory, you can see
the registry file is right there.
registry.yaml. Let's look inside that
real quick.
And there is simply a reference to our
installed servers. And it's when you
actually install it and register it that
it shows up here. Now, we're not going
to be able to do that through the guey.
So, we have to add ours manually here.
It's actually pretty easy. We're going
to do nano or whatever you want to use
to edit this file. And at the very
bottom, using the same format, keeping
everything lined up, we will add our
server. It's called dice according to my
prompt here. And we put that ref thing.
Crl + xy. Enter to save. That's all we
got to worry about. And let me tell you,
uh, we're almost done. I was going to
say we're done, but we're not done yet.
We do need to edit our cloud MCP server
config. We're going to change it to look
something like this. I'm just going to
copy this and paste it into my cloud
config here. And there's a few things
happening. Notice it's still running the
Docker MCP gateway command. It's just
running a few more options. And I
actually need to change two things here.
First, I'll need to make sure I change
my home directory to be the exact home
directory I'm using. It's going to mount
that as a Docker volume. And look,
cursor is like, let me help you out.
Thank you, cursor. And then down here,
you can notice that with the Docker MCP
command, we can run more than one
catalog. And that's the secret sauce
here. We're referencing the main Docker
catalog. And then also our custom one,
which I need to change that name because
I did not name it custom. I named it my
That should be it, I think. And then
notice we're referencing this registry
that we already edited. And that should
be all we have to worry about. Going to
save this file. And I'm going to launch
Claude. Fingers crossed we get no
errors. Claude, don't disappoint me,
buddy. Here we go. You'll get a scary
error if it doesn't like it because it
tries to test the containers. So far so
good. Click on my tools. Go down to my
MCP toolkit gateway and see if my tools
are there. Come on. Flip a coin. That
looks nice. Oh, come on. Come on. Come
on. Roll. There's all the stuff. There's
all the tools. Cool. It's showing up.
The MCP tools are available, but do they
work? Let's try it out. Now, the read me
file gave me some options to say or try.
Okay, let's roll a 2d6
for me using the dice tool.
Come on. Come on. I will give you
permission, buddy. You got this.
It worked. Yes. Oh, let's do something
simple like flip a coin using the dice
tool. Man, so cool. I can generate D and
D stats. Let's try this.
I don't play D and D, so I don't know
what that means. Oh my gosh, what's it
even doing? Well, that's cool either
way, which I have no idea what's
happening, but it seems awesome. Okay,
we got a simple MCP server out of the
way, but what about something that is a
bit more complex? For example, I use a
timer tool called toggle, which I use to
track how much time I'm using to script
and and film. So, for example, right now
over here in my browser, I'm currently
filming and I've been doing that for 51
minutes. Toggle has a great API, but no
MCP server. I would like to use an MCP
server so I can chat with Claude or
whatever LLM I have and control my
timers or check in on my timers. Let's
do that right now. So, back here at the
prompt, I just got to describe what I
want.
I want to create a toggle MCP server.
This will
use the toggle API. Now, I'm not going
to sit here and talk about this the
entire time. You'll see what I write,
but I'm having to make sure I answer all
these questions here.
All right, that's what I want. I want it
to do three things. Start a timer, stop
a timer, and view existing timers. And
I'm just pasting the link to the toggle
API documentation. Let's go find it.
Okay, it should be able to figure
everything out past that. All right,
Claude, new project for you. Go coffee
break while I build this another MCP
server.
I also have it programmed to ask any
questions that aren't answered that it
needs to have answered to complete this
task. Now, remember, when you're working
with AI, it's all about context. If you
provide it enough context, good context
for what you want to do and you describe
it well, you're going to have amazing
results. Okay, it finished. Same steps
as before with one minor difference. So,
I'll do my Docker file. So, I'll create
a new directory, add in all the files.
All right. Now, I'll build that new
This is so cool. And then I'll need to
add my API key. Now, remember the cool
thing about Docker MCP gateways, we can
manage our secrets with Docker.
Remember, I haven't told you that yet.
The Docker MCP gateway, it can help you
manage your secrets, things like API
keys and tokens. Keep that stuff out of
your code and nestled safely inside
Docker MCP secrets. Anyways, back to me.
Also, I explain more about Docker MCP
gateways later in the video. As I
mentioned before, you don't want to miss
that part. So I'll do docker mcp secret
list or ls rather to see what we have
just our obsidian API key that we added
earlier in the guey but we can do it
manually here as well. So I'll do docker
mcp secret and it's going to be set and
my toggle API token environment variable
and then I'll add in my API key right
now. Done. Secret set. Let's do ls once
more to see if it's there. Yep, there it
is. Now it's time for the catalog piece.
Now I could make a new catalog. You can
have a bunch or I can just add this to
my existing catalog to make it easy. And
I think I'll just do that. So I'll grab
just the part I need, the toggle server
itself describing all of its tools. And
then edit my custom catalog
and add it right after dice. I think
it's all lined up. Awesome. Crl + XY
enter to save. And then we'll update our
registry. adding that tool right below
dice.
[Applause]
Now, because that catalog is already in
our Claude configuration, we don't have
to worry about it. We'll just restart
Claude. And that should be all we have
to do. Fingers crossed. Here we go. I'm
doing this live. Like, what you saw was
real. Everything past this point. No
errors. Oh my gosh, that's so good.
Okay, let's check our tools. The timer
stuff might be at the bottom here. Ah,
there it is. Start, stop, view, timers.
Oh, okay. So, currently I'm filming and
I have a timer for that. Do I have any
current timers right now? I'm not even
going to tell it what tool to use. Let
it figure it out. Come on. Come on. Of
course, buddy. Here you go.
Yes, it's I almost spilled my coffee.
Oh, no. I did. But it worked. I got to
clean this up.
You'd be surprised how often this
happens. Okay, now let's say um stop
that timer.
Can it do it? No, you didn't. It totally
did. Okay, now restart it. Come on. Oh
my gosh, it did. That's so cool.
Isn't that just the most insanely
powerful thing you've ever seen? You can
do whatever you want. How about we build
a hacking MCP? Yes, I'm going to show
you how to build right now a Kali Linux
hacking MCP. This one is interesting and
we won't need any special uh API stuff.
We're just going to run a Kali Linux
container, which is actually supported
now on a Mac. So, that's really cool.
We're going to run it right here on our
machine. And I've got a description here
that I've used. Let's see how well this
does. Okay, that should give it a lot of
information. Let's throw it in there and
let it go to work. Now, it may kick back
on you because you're trying to build a
hacking container, but if you frame it
the right way, it'll be fine usually.
Okay, I like that. Happy authorized
testing. It's done. Let's build it out.
Same story as before. for we'll create a
new directory, create all our files,
build our container, which might take a
moment. So, perfect time for I mean,
well, you know, by this point. Tell you
what, while you're sitting there, have
you hacked the YouTube algorithm today?
Let's make sure you do. Hit that like
button, subscribe, notification bell,
comment. You got to hack YouTube today.
Ethically, of course.
Okay, that actually was pretty fast,
which makes me a little bit nervous, but
we'll see how it goes.
right under our toggle server and edit
our registry.
All right, it's done. I really hope this
works. We're going to restart Claude.
No errors. No errors. Come on. Come on.
Okay, let's see if our Cali tools are in
there. We should see some pretty crazy
stuff in there. If it's all working
correctly. H, it's not there. What tools
am I looking for? There should be like
an end mapap scan. Nothing. It hates me.
Let's double check our work. Maybe it
wants my secret set. That's why it's
failing.
I feel good this time.
Yes. Okay. I just wanted the secret set.
Okay, cool. Now, let's test some Kali
Linux
scan on network 10.70.2.024.
do a pretty quick one. Okay, we're
allowing the tool if this works. Oh my
goodness. Oh, there's a white list. Did
I put in a white list myself? Oh, yes.
Yes, yes, okay. Okay, it put in guard
rails for me, Claude. Oh, all right.
So dumb.
Remove the white list stuff. I want this
wide open.
put in guard rails
can't stop me from hacking. Okay, I got
it to give me what I what I needed. I
think I'll have to adjust the Docker
file and the server. I'll just do them
all. Who knows what this LLM changed
requirements is the same.
Let's build it again. That should be it.
I want restart Claude. Let's check our
tools. Make sure they're there. There
they are. Okay. Again. Okay. Okay, I'm
going to change it to make sure I'm
running as root. Okay, that should do
it. Building again. Restarting Claude.
Come on. What the heck? Oh, the Docker
file was screwing me up. Yeah, comment
out the user.
That's what it was. This is so dumb.
Let's build it again.
All right, better work this time.
It's driving me nuts.
Let's do a Docker PS. See if it's
running. It's running, but it's only
running while we're doing this. Kelly
Linux is being used right now by an LLM,
by AI. I can talk to my hacking box with
plain language. Hey, go hack that thing.
And it does it. Now, while that's
scanning, I'm going to show you one I've
already built using the exact same
methods we've used here so far. It's on
my MacBook. I want to show you this one
because I've played with this one a lot.
This will all be in the documentation
below. Got a few more tools here. Let's
try this. It's just so crazy. We can do
this. All right. Doing an end mapap
scan. This is so awesome. I finished in
endmap not necto durb buster. And in
case you're wondering, you can use all
these things with claw code as well.
This one I don't know what's going on
with him. He's taking forever.
So in case you're wondering, I'm using
the DVWA web app. An app that's
intentionally insecure so you can try
and hack things. And there's a log of it
right here. Me hitting it. Oh, cool.
This one's working now. WordPress scan.
WP scan. And dude, this thing's killing
it.
SQL map coming in. I'm like using AI to
hack this from like three different
computers right now. This one finished.
It found out what it was. Now, if you're
like me, you got to be wondering, how is
this all working? Like, are these MCP
servers actually running as Docker
containers? Are they running all the
time? If I run Docker PS right now, am I
going to see containers running? No.
Then what's happening? And are all MCP
servers local like this? or are there
remote MCP servers? Let's talk about
that right now. We're about to get super
nerdy. I hope you're ready for this.
Let's dive in. Now, first thing I want
to show you is that whenever we're
actually engaging with an MCP server
here with Docker Desktop, it's running
those MCP server containers
briefly and then taking them down. You
want to see? Watch. Let's do this
command. Hope it works on Mac. I haven't
tried this. do watch dash n0.5
docker ps
brew install watch
dang.
All right, we'll just run it while we're
doing stuff. Let's use claude to call a
tool and we'll just spam docker ps. Use
Airbnb tool to find a house in Tokyo for
a family of eight for two weeks starting
October. Let's get our command ready.
Allow once. Let's watch. Oh, wait. I
wasn't ready. Ah, here we go.
It was too fast. I didn't catch it in
time. We'll just use this watch command
here or this while true loop. Ah,
perfect.
Let's see if it shows up now. Ah, there
it is. We briefly caught it. It's so
fast. That took longer than I thought it
would be to track it. All that to say,
every time we engage with an MCP server,
a Docker container for the MCP server is
spun up and spun down. They're not
running all the time, only when we need
them, which is kind of cool. But that's
only running an MCP server locally.
There's actually other ways to access
MCP servers, specifically remote MCP
servers. There's one from Coin Gecko,
which is a popular site we can use to
find out the prices of cryptocurrency.
So, we'll have this Coin Gecko MCP
server to cursor, for example. We'll go
to our cursor settings and go to our MCP
and integrations config and we'll add a
new custom MCP server. And what it's
going to do is open up a MCP server
file. And by the way, this is exactly
how most of the applications we use
look. In fact, watch. Look at Claude.
This right here is Claude's config. I'll
open that in cursor too. And now you're
not seeing double. These are two
different uh config files, but it's a
standard, right? So they look the
stinking same. But here for cursor, I'm
going to change this config. Adding coin
gecko right here. Notice our Docker MCP
server is running a command with the
Docker command and all these arguments.
We'll cover that in a second. But this
one here is actually just reaching out
to an external URL. This is an external
MCP server. We're not hosting it.
Someone else is. And it's using this
transport SSE. We'll cover that here in
a moment. I'm going to save it. We'll
open up a new chat here and say, what is
the current price of XRP? Use the Coin
Gecko MCP server. We'll let it run the
tool. Let it get the sample price. And
there it is. So, that's super handy. But
this kind of drove me crazy. And if
you're like me, you probably thought the
same thing. Like, how is this
communication working? What do MCP
servers use for communication for
transport? Well, it depends on if you're
running local or remote. The most
interesting one that I'm like, how is
this working was docker because we're
simply I mean this all this is doing.
It's configured to run the Docker
command plus MCP gateway run. Like
literally, the command will be like
this. I can probably run it right now.
Docker MCP gateway run. Like, yeah,
that's what it's doing. And look, it's
actually running. and listing all those
tools and the server is now up. I'll
stop that. So, what's really interesting
is every time you try to use an MCP
server with Docker, it's actually going
to run the MCP gateway and then run the
specific MCP server. It's kind of crazy.
We'll cover that here in a second. I
know I keep saying that, but again,
seriously though, if we're just running
commands, how is this working? What's
the communication? It's actually just
using standard out, standard input and
output via the command line. That's it.
This is direct communication between
local processes on the same machine.
JSON RPC messages are exchanged through
pipes. Meaning the transport is almost
nothing. It's just like you sitting next
to me and I go, "Hi." Like that's it.
There's no need to go over a network or
anything, which is fantastic because
there's like no latency, no network
overhead. And you'll see that in
situations like this where we're running
Docker MCP servers locally. Now, you can
run MCP servers without Docker. Docker
is just making it crazy easy for us. But
most of the time when you're running on
your local machine, you're going to be
using standard input and output. But
what about when it's remote, not on the
same computer, not on the same network.
Well, we're going to be using HTTP. And
in most cases, it should be HTTPS.
And that's for client to server. It's
going to be using SSE or server side
events, which is what we see right here
as our transport for server to client.
And this is a lot more complex, right?
Like you're setting up a web server at
this point. You're setting up
authentication. So operating a remote
MCP server is a whole thing. Whereas
running your own MCP server in your own
Docker container on your local machine,
you're just using standard input and
output. All local, man. It's awesome.
But now, real quick, I want to talk
about this MCP gateway thing because
it's a little crazy. And by crazy, I
mean awesome. Normally, you'd have to
configure an MCP server like this, one
at a time, one service. So, we'd have
multiple entries here for whatever
service we want. But we saw that in
Docker, we didn't add just one server to
our config, did we? We added a bunch.
Here's our list of servers right here.
We have what, how many? six. Yet in our
MCP server list here in cursor, we have
one MCP server set up with Docker.
That's the gateway. If I already use
some marketing speak right now, buckle
your seat belts. The Docker MCP gateway
provides secure, centralized, and
scalable orchestration of AI tools
through containerized MCP servers. What
does that mean? It means when we have
Claude or Cursor, our clients, we just
connect them to one MCP server. We only
need to manage one connection. And this
one connection, this one MCP server
gives us access to a lot of stuff, a lot
of other MCP servers. So, I don't know
about you, but it seems like this is a
lot cleaner than this. And of course,
we'd also have to deal with all the
authentication, the secrets for each
connection, for each client that
connects. But not with Docker MCP
gateway. It's all centralized right
there. Killer. I hope you're starting to
see how cool this is. Or is it just me?
I don't know. Comment below if it's just
me or if you're joining me in this
excitement. Hold on. I need some more
coffee. I'll be right back. You can get
some more coffee, too.
Okay, that's steaming, man. Check that
out.
Almost don't even need to drink it.
Yeah, I do. Now, let's get to the CLI
real quick. My favorite place in the
entire world. Let's go. You saw that we
have some new commands with Docker.
Things like Docker MCP gateway. We just
tried that out. Our LLM app is actually
going to run that command for us or we
can run this manually. We don't really
need to unless we want it to be accessed
remotely. We can actually do this.
We can specify the transport to be
standard input output SSE streaming to
make it available over the network. I
know right. Imagine running your own
Docker MCP gateway server for all the
things in your home network or your
business. just okay we're on the same
page here. I think we also have the
docker mcp catalog command which we can
look at our if we do ls we can see we
have our default docker mcp catalog and
there is an official way where you can
create your own docker mcp server and
submit that to be added to the official
catalog. You can do that but you have to
get it approved. You have to wait and
I'm not very patient. I don't know about
you. Docker actually does help us manage
our secrets. So Dr. MCP secrets. Now
what's a secret? What are you talking
about? Things like API keys, ooth. You
can securely manage your secrets with
Docker. Now, two more crazy things I
want to show you. Right now, we're
running Docker MCP gateway with Docker
Desktop. That's like the official way to
do it right now because they have the
MCP gateway in beta that you can run
alongside of it. But if you check out
the documentation, and I bet they're
going to make it better and better and
better and better. Dude, this coffee is
like hitting me like crazy. I love it.
I'll put this link below, but you can
run the Docker MCP gateway as a Docker
container totally apart from the Docker
MCP toolkit and Docker Desktop. Been
saying Docker a lot. Coffee break. Which
means yes, you could run a headless
server somewhere else running all kinds
of crazy stuff. And I'm going to show
you this real quick. I'm going to run
the gateway Docker MCP gateway run
transport. I'm going run it with SSE. I
think that's how we do it. Yes. So now
it's actually running over the network
instead of standard input output. It's
on port 8811. That's my IP address. So,
real quick, I'm going to jump into NAN,
my local NAN configuration here in my
studio. This is going to be so powerful.
I'll create a new workflow. I'll have an
AI agent come in and do something crazy.
And I'll give it a tool. How about an
MCP server? I think it'll just be HTTP
slash the IP address port 8811.
Let's see.
Oh, it sees everything. Yes. Look at
that. Over the stinking network. Okay.
Okay. So, let's um I'm too excited. I'm
so sorry. Let's give it a crazy prompt.
Okay. Three steps. Find the best
restaurant and Airbnb next to it and
then put it in my Obsidian vault using
three different tools. Can it do it? I
have no idea. Let's see. I'm so excited
to see if this works.
Something broke, though.
How to tell to ignore robots. See if
it'll be okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's
great. Yes.
Look at the logs here in the terminal.
It using all these things, all these
tools, but I forgot step three. Oh, I
didn't give it memory. Hold on. You know
what? Let's try to oneshot this.
Let's go. This is magic. This is pure
magic.
You did it. There it is. All right. So,
where's the best restaurant? Okay. So,
it gave me a lot of options. Needs some
work on the prompt, but still, it used
all the tools just like that over the
network. And it was with one command I
did, right? Like that wasn't that hard.
Okay, you just learned MCP. Not only can
you use an MCP server, but you learned
how to build one yourself and you know
how it works. That's a skill. Put that
on your stinking resume. Who do you know
that knows how to do this? The list is
not very long right now. Now, I would
love to know what you thought of this
video and what you plan on building with
MCP servers. Please comment below and
let me know. Also, if you like more
stuff like this, more AI automation,
which is like more real world, right?
Check out my other video on N8N, an
automation platform that's just
mind-boggling. That video was so fun to
make and I plan to make another one on
top of that. And of course, you saw how
I connected our MCP environment, the
Docker MCP gateway to N8N, opening up
just a billion possibilities. It's
endless. We're in a gold rush
opportunity right now just to learn and
create and do things like crazy. Don't
waste it. That's all I got. I'll catch
you guys next time.