Imagine taking any picture you've seen
and in just a few clicks generating
something really strikingly similar or
capturing its exact style. In this
video, I will show you how to recreate
existing images using Midjourney V7.
Within Midjourney, image recreation has
three distinct levels. First level is
foundational level. Here our aim is
capturing fundamental essence of an
image using descriptive keywords and
language. In order to do that, first we
will upload the image we want to
recreate. For this job, you can use
image icon here and click on choose a
file or drop it here. Find the image you
want to recreate. For example, for this
task, I want to recreate this image and
upload it to mid journey. Once it's
uploaded, we will use describe function
which is very handy using information
icon here. When you click on it, AI
analyzes the image and generates a few
different text prompts and keywords
which describes and capture the key
visual elements of this image. Then you
can take these prompts by clicking on
them and generate a new image here.
Don't forget to use atomic prompting
structure. Always start with fundamental
art medium at the beginning of your
prompt. Cinematic photo of a female
humanoid with blue eyes. And my results
is ready. And you will realize that this
fundamental level of we creation is very
descriptional. It's not quite exact. It
stays more in the subject and general
life level, but it doesn't produce an
exact copy of an image. Now, let's jump
into level two, exact replication. If
your goal is to produce a pixel perfect
duplicate, exact replication is possible
with a more direct approach. Instead of
relying on only descriptive capabilities
of midjourney, we will directly feed the
image itself as an image prompt for
visual reference. This is what's known
as using an image prompt. For this job,
we will drag and drop the image we want
to replicate to the section here. As you
can see, now this image is selected. We
will still use the same descriptor
prompt. So, we are not removing it. But
a parameter called image weight becomes
critical. It's represented with d- iw
and it takes values ranging from 0.5 up
to three. Lower value means the text
prompt holds more weight than the image
reference. Words matter more. Higher
values, the highest tree strongly
encourages midjourney to prioritize the
visual information it's getting from the
image prompt itself. I hit enter and
generation starts and my results is
ready. As you can see, we got much
closer to the original image itself.
Here's another example. I want to
recreate this image. I'm going to upload
it. Build the descriptive language. I
have a man with a skull-like face and
glowing red eyes holding his smoking
cigarettes in its hand and wearing a
long coat. And I have a neon sign says
eternity bar. And here we can maybe rely
on midjourney aesthetics this time and
increase stylization around 300. And
let's hit it. Just to show you the
difference, I ran this prompt two times.
first one with my personalized style
which looks like much more realistic.
But I'm quite happy with the
personalization being easily accessible
via P icon here. It definitely shortens
my prompts because instead of writing a
lengthy style keywords, I can now just
use P. And this would most likely
produce something which I will really
enjoy. And in the second one, I dropped
my personal lifestyle and completely
relied on midjourney aesthetics. and you
will realize that midjourney aesthetics
here looks much more illustrative and it
looks super different than my
personalized preference. Now let's
proceed from midjourney aesthetics again
and I'm going to use exact same prompt.
Additionally, I will add an image prompt
here again. So drag and drop here and I
crank up again the value of image weight
and I hit enter and you will realize
that we managed to get a very high
resemblance to the original image. So
next level is consistent style.
Consistent style shifts our attention
from direct copying to capturing an
overarching artistic style or
atmosphere. The specific artistic vibes
will be visually echoed in an image
independent from the subject. It's
almost like setting up a visual
blueprint or visual specification. So
I'm going to choose this style as my
visual blueprint or let's say visual
specification. I'm going to use this
subject again. So I copy pasted the
prompt a detailed prompt and I'm
dropping photography here because it
will create the clash with my selected
visual reference style and I don't need
image prompt here but what I need is I
absolutely need a style reference. So
I'm going to drag and drop this image to
style reference section. Now the whole
life changed in comparison to the
original image I created with the same
subject. And some people ask for example
what happens if I use an image prompt
and style reference together. In this
case your image prompt will be much more
dominant more so than star reference.
There is another layer in consistent
style which is called moodboard.
Moodboard is a carefully created visual
references by providing AI with a
created collection of AI images. To
achieve this you need to select
personalized tab and create mood board.
And here you can use links. You can pull
images from your own midJourney gallery
or upload from your computer. I
recommend you don't use random images.
Keep it consistent and aim for around 20
images to give the AI enough visual
data. And once you generate the mood
board, all you need to do is clicking on
use profile and this will provide you a
specific code that you can use in your
prompts which will reference aesthetic
style of this moodboard directly. So I'm
going to use same subject again and this
time I don't have any image prompts but
I'm relying completely on the mood
board. I hit enter and you will realize
that things start to get very
interesting with this visual moodboard
style. We achieved two different
aesthetics than our original image. Next
thing for consistent style is universal
style reference codes. As you can see it
here. Style ref codes are very popular
on Twitter and many great users are
sharing super interesting aesthetic
styles that you can simply replicate. So
this one shared by pastor. So go check
his profile. He's really cool. I thought
this visual aesthetic would fit
perfectly to my subject. Simply you can
just copy paste this star reference code
and you will get visual aesthetic
similar to this. Here, for example, I
applied it and you can see we got some
almost Doomlike super interesting hybrid
visual aesthetics. I'm still keeping my
original subject, but now I'm getting
much stronger visual style echo from
Pastor Star reference code. Hopefully,
this video was truly helpful for you.
Don't forget to give a thumbs up and
subscribe for more in-depth tutorials.
If you want to learn more about future
of storytelling, click