I've created almost 25,000 images with
Midshine, so I know the tool pretty
well. Today, I want to talk about the
Mid Churnney editor. It has been around
for a while, but now you can also work
with layers. That's very
useful. I tested the editor from a
beginner's view and tried many different
things.
I'll show you step by step how it works.
If you want to further customize images
in MidJourney, then you've come to the
right place because the editor in
Midjourney is exactly the right solution
for this. There are actually two of
them. One can be found on the left in
the navigation. This is the so-called
external image editor. If I click on it,
I am redirected to the edit your images
page. Assuming you haven't worked with
it yet, you will initially only see this
edit new image section. If you click on
it, you now have the option of either
using images from a URL or uploading
images from an external source. If we
want to use the URL, simply rightclick
on an image of your choice and then
click on copy image URL under share and
save. Then simply return to the edit
from URL input mask and then paste the
link you just copied there. Midjourney
will then use exactly this image here.
The second way to activate the external
image editor is as already mentioned
this brown button. This allows you to
select an image from your hard disk. But
there is actually a third way to edit
images. Simply click on an image of your
choice and you will see the
inconspicuous edit button at the bottom
right. Now it may be that this is not
visible for you. This is probably
because you have not yet activated its
visibility via more options and more
actions. If I uncheck the box, you can
see what happens. This means simply
click on more options and place a red
check mark next to more actions. Then
simply click on edit. Now we are in the
internal image editor. Confusing a
little. This internal editor is used as
the name suggests to modify images
created purely via midjourney. We also
find the normal standard functions in
the top right hand corner. More on this
in a moment. What is different here
however is the vary function and the
editor actions field. There we find the
open and edit tab button. In short,
clicking on it triggers the same action
as clicking on edit in the navigation on
the left. But now let's work with the
more versatile tool, the external image
editor. To do this, click on edit in the
navigation on the left. Then click on
edit new image. And now I select the
brown edit uploaded image field to edit
an image. I've already prepared
something for this. This blurred
background image. The two tabs edit and
retexture are crucial here. Both
functions are fundamentally different.
With edit you can edit images just like
in a graphics program. With retexture
you can change the style and color of
images i.e their entire
substance. Step one is the edit
function. The tools that we see directly
below become relevant when we have
already executed a task. More on this in
a moment. The first tool is called move
and resize. If you activate this
function, the image will have a white
handle in each corner. If I move one of
these white fields while holding down
the mouse button, I can reduce or
enlarge the image. The other alternative
is this slider on the left, you can use
it to change images by percentage. A pro
tip at this point, don't reduce the
image too much because the smaller the
image is, the wilder midjourneys
interpretations become. Stay roughly in
the same range as what you see here. You
can simply grab the image and move it to
a position of your choice within the
canvas. You can also change the aspect
ratio here. I reset the entire
arrangement for now. For example, you
can change the canvas size to 3x4, 2x3,
16x9, or
9x6. And of course, you can use the
slider again to adjust the image scale.
By the way, more than 100% is not
possible. In this tutorial, we will
initially stick to the standard format
of 16x9. Incidentally, you can see that
the tools below edit have now been
activated. These are undo or redo or
reset. I can use undo to go back step by
step to the activities I've carried out
so far. Redo is self-explanatory. With
reset, I return to the original state of
the image. If we next look at the paint
tool, we find two editing options, erase
and restore. Below this, I can define
the brush size. If you look at the
image, you will see this slightly
transparent circle. This is the size of
your brush. I can not only reduce or
enlarge it with the mouse wheel, but
also with the slider on the left.
Another pro tip, always make the brush
slightly larger so that you give
midjourney the freedom to interpret the
image better. If I now mark an area with
erase, for example, these flags here,
and then click on restore, you will see
a shadow of the original image in the
background. You now have the option of
refining your selection. To do this,
simply reduce the brush size slightly
and remove what you have already
selected. If I now click on submit edit,
MidJourney is instructed to only make
changes in the area you have selected.
Let me first reset the entire setup via
reset. I'll show you the smart select
function in a moment. First, let's jump
to the layers topic. You'll find this at
the bottom left. As the term suggests,
you can place different layers on top of
each other, just like in Photoshop, for
example. I've tested this extensively
and found that it actually works very
well with one to two layers. If there
are several layers, midjourney still has
a bit of a problem. So, what exactly can
you do here? Simply click on the word
add and upload an external image. I
select an image from my external hard
disk and add it to my composition as a
second layer, so to speak. This image of
a single penguin is now in front of my
background image and is marked red as
active at the bottom left. You can
select the individual layers at any time
and delete them again. The one marked in
red is currently being edited. By using
this image of the penguin, I can now
explain the smart select tool very well.
Here we find the include and exclude
functions. If I select include and click
on the penguin with the left mouse
button, midjourney recognizes the figure
and marks it with this green
hatching. Exclude removes selected areas
again. That was step one. Now you can
use erase selection to delete the active
selection from the image. In other
words, cut a hole in the image or use
erase background to remove the area that
is now not highlighted in green. This is
exactly the inverse effect. However, we
want the figure to remain and only the
background to be removed. That's why I
click on erase background here.
Incidentally, if you have made a
mistake, you can use the undo and redo
functions at any time and go back step
by step. The penguin is still layer 1.
The background is layer two. On the far
right, we see the basic element, the
original image. If we now combine the
individual tools with each other, for
example, move and resize, then I can
move the penguin to a different position
in the image. Now, the actual
modification process begins. To do this,
I go to layer 2, the background image,
and select the erase function. What I'm
about to show you is crucial. You have
to give MidJourney the option of
blending the two layers into each other.
To do this, I take the brush and erase
image content at the transition between
the two objects. In this specific case,
I want the transition between the
penguin and the background to be nicely
interpolated by midjourney. If I've
inadvertently performed a wrong action,
I can either click undo or use restore.
Then I can remove what I have marked
incorrectly.
Next, I add the prompt a penguin looks
amazed to the top of the command bar and
then click on submit edit. Midjourney
now leaves the basic structure with the
individual layers. If I click on the
basic element on the top right again, I
can change my entire job again, even
though midjourney is already working on
the new job. This means that whatever is
outlined in red at the top right is
shown here as an enlarged image. I now
select one of these four pictures. It is
outlined in red at the top right and
displayed here in large. Midjourney has
now perfectly modeled the penguin into
the background without you having to do
any major editing. By the way, if you
have to stop working on a current
project, you don't need to worry that
everything is gone. Midjourney saves the
log. Simply restart the application. Go
to edit and you will find your last
edited file there under recent. It's as
simple as that. Then just click on it
again and all the elements are there
again. So nothing has disappeared. Of
course I can still go backwards and
forwards. Everything you have done and
all the images are still there. Now
let's continue to change this picture
here. To do this, I'll choose an image
from the four suggestions that I like
best. I'll take this one. By the way,
you can see that this picture is new and
has no further layers. Please don't
confuse the two. Next, I select move and
resize again and place the image in the
middle at a reduced size. Again,
remember not to reduce the image too
much. Midjourney remains very
unconventional and could simply insert
something unwanted into the image if it
has too much leeway. I press submit edit
again with the same prompt. Of course, I
could have written a different request.
with my prompt. Midjourney now expands
the image on all sides and performs a
zoom effect to put it bluntly. If we
click again on the basic element, this
was our source image. That's where I
basically assembled the entire scene.
Then I took this picture and in the
latest version, I have a somewhat
wide-angle shot. Of course, it's clear
that not all pictures are perfect.
That's why MidJourney gives you four
alternatives to choose from. This
picture already looks quite good and so
you can gradually refine your image. In
this picture, the penguin is standing on
a small hill. I actually like that very
much. And now comes the part that makes
midjourney quite
extraordinary. But before we go any
deeper, here's another pro tip. When you
found a picture you like, always
remember to mark it so that it is
displayed large and then save it via
upscale to gallery. If you don't do
this, your image will not be transferred
to your normal midjourney gallery. You
could also download images directly from
the editor, but I always go the way via
upscale. But now back to the very
special part. This is a really powerful
feature if you know how to use it. You
can add incredible depth to your image.
How does it work? Select one of your
images in the editor. Reduce its size.
Place it in the middle. And now comes
the big moment of
personalization. In the top right hand
corner of the editor, there is this P
symbol which stands for
personalization. Click on it and switch
on the function. This basically
activates it yet without further
specifications. Now select a mood board
that you particularly like. I use faces
colorful. You could also combine several
styles with each other, but this will
eventually become a huge mishmash with
no clear
identification. You can see that
personalization is active by the red P
symbol. Now midjourney knows I have to
transfer the selected style to the new
image. Now I click on submit edit again.
For this example, I have slightly
modified the prompt. The changes relate
exclusively to the gray area marked here
in the image. Now we can see the result.
Midjourney leaves the original style in
the center and generates a new theme
that matches the style of the mood board
you have selected. Midjourney also
ensures that the two images are blended
into one another. This allows you to
create completely new scenes. Of course,
I can resize the output and write a
different prompt. for example, trees and
orcs. Erase the current profile and then
select a new style from your mood
boards. For example, cool guy. And now
in the next step, midjourney adds the
new style of the second mood board into
the scene. Here is one last test again
with a different
prompt. I simply write another prompt
and select the flower details mood
board. Unfortunately, you can't see
which style is hidden behind which mood
board's name. You either have to
memorize the styles, which is most
likely not possible in most cases, or
it's a bit of guesswork. And again, the
image has changed. Don't forget to
deactivate personalization again if you
no longer want to use it. If I want to
see what I've already edited in the
editor, I click on view all in the top
leftand corner. This takes me to the
already familiar edit your images page.
Here I can select all the images I have
created by holding down the left mouse
button and then hide them using more and
hide. If you want to delete your job
completely in the editor, simply click
on the small dust bin icon on the right
of the image. Now you can restart from
the beginning. The images which I
transferred via upscale to gallery can
now be found in the overview section.
Let's now have a look at the retexture
function in step two. To do this, click
on the retexture tab on the right. We
will ignore the rest for this test. At
this point, it is important to think
creatively. For example, enter knitted
penguin and then click on submit
retexture. This will produce the
following results. Pay attention to the
flags and the figures in the background.
Here we see the free interpretation of
midjourney which visualized a knitted
depiction from your 3D rendering. This
produces results like this or something
similar. Again, remember to transfer the
image you like to your create profile
via upscale to gallery. Of course, you
can also refine this further. To do
this, click on edit again, then open in
edit tab and load an external image.
Interestingly, cropped images such as
PNG files work very well. Then you no
longer need to use the smart select
function. You can see the cropped
penguin here. Place it in the position
of your choice and start modeling. This
is now the older brother of the knitted
penguin. Remember to erase the area
between the two layers in the background
image so that MidJourney can blend the
two layers seamlessly. Again, it worked
perfectly without you having to use any
other software. Both penguins now have
their very own look and feel in the same
lighting. The job is done. It's that
simple. Don't overload the editor with
too many layers. Midjourney may become a
little overwhelmed. I have been working
with Photoshop for about 25 years.
MidJourney still has a long way to go if
it wants to compete with Photoshop. For
example, you can't mirror images at all
and many other basic functions don't
work. Think more in terms of how you can
combine two images together. Then the
success rate is much
higher. That's it for this tutorial. I
hope you enjoyed it. Please leave a
like, subscribe to the channel, and
recommend it to others. Thank you very
much for listening. See you soon. Your
channel AI. Now you know.